How do I use this?

  It's not the easiest program to use as yet, as it is not fully
  integrated.  You have to use yaesu_rw to copy the data from the
  radio to the computer.  Then you can use yaesu_edit to modify
  the contents of the file.  After you are happy with that, you
  can use yaesu_rw to write the data back to the radio.

  For instance, I do the following with my VX-7R:
    yaesu_rw -d /dev/ttyUSB0 -s 19200 -h -r VX-7R.mem
    yaesu_edit VX-7R.mem
    yaesu_rw -d /dev/ttyUSB0 -s 19200 -h -w VX-7R.mem

  The cloning instructions are different for every radio, but the
  manuals for the radios cover this.  Make sure to turn the radio
  on in clone mode before running yaesu_rw, as turning the power
  on can glitch the serial line.

  Maybe I can work on integrating these programs, it would be a
  little nicer.


How can I transfer memories between radios?

  Cut and paste the memory.  Pull up yaesu_edit for the two radio
  config files, and you can cut and paste arbitrary numbers of memories
  between the radios.

  There's no CSV support, though that wouldn't be to terribly hard.


Sometime I get an ERROR transferring data from the radio, but the data is ok.

  Yeah, I know.  Sometimes the radios do this, and I haven't figured
  out why.  There are timing constraints with these things that, of
  course, are not documented, so I have to guess.  The error is
  generally harmless.


Are there any settings I need to know about?

  Well, a few things.  The VX-7R radios use 19200 for the serial speed,
  not 9600 like the FT-xxx radios I have.  There's no easy way to auto-
  detect this, so you have to set it by hand.

  Finding the serial port can be tricky if you have more than a few.
  Generally, for USB cables, just plug and unplug the cable and see
  what changes in /dev/ttyUSB*


I have one of the new RT Systems USB cables and the kernel doesn't see it.

  The new cables are not automatically recognized by the kernel, they
  need to have their USB IDs added to the proper files.  I've added the
  one for the VX-7 cable, but I don't have any other cables so I can't
  get the IDs.

  If you have one of these, do the following:
    <unplug the cable>
    lsusb >file1
    <plug the cable in>
    lsusb >file2
    diff file1 file2
  and send me the results of the diff.  I can add it pretty easily and
  provide a kernel patch.


Will this work with my radio?

  I have no idea.  I have an FT-60, an FT-7800, an FT-897, and a
  VX-7R, so I've made it work with those.  Other people may make it
  work with their radios, or it may just work.  If so, I will take
  changes and reports of working/nonworking radios.

  And, of course, the same radio model may have different versions
  that work slightly differently.


Will you make it work with my radio?

  Well, that depends.  If you follow the instructions in the man page,
  you may be able to get it to work.  But there may be issues.

  I'm not going to buy a radio or go back and forth with you forever
  to get something working.  I'll try a few simple things, perhaps,
  but not much.  If you are willing to give me a radio or pay me
  enough to buy a radio, that's another story, I *might* do it
  depending on my status.  But it's difficult to support something if
  you don't have the hardware.

  You, of course, can do the work.  Or you might ask on a list;
  someone else with the radio and Linux may be interested in doing
  this.  I'll gladly take patches as long as they are reasonable.  I
  would expect you to maintain the work and test it periodically, or
  the device will go unsupported.


When that happens, will you support my radio for configuration?

  See the previous response, but I will not support this without
  hardware, and even then it's a very long process.  Yaesu will not
  release the information, so it has to be reverse-engineered.
  Money, of course makes things easier.  Not that I'm doing this
  software for money, but that's really what it will take.

  Of course, as before, you can do the work or you may be able to find
  someone else.  But reverse-engineering just sucks.
